# KDM4B_MYC_condensates
Primary sequencing data and BigWig files are deposited at the GEO depository: GSE304298 GSE304299

## RNA-seq data analysis
Raw reads were trimmed and mapped to the mm10 genome using STAR (v2.7.5c)(Dobin et al., 2013) with the parameters: ‘--outSAMtype BAM SortedByCoordinate --twopassMode Basic --outFilterMismatchNmax 3’. Low-quality mapped reads and PCR duplicates were removed using SAMtools (v1.12)(Li et al., 2009) and Picard Tools (v2.25.5; Broad Institute) (https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/). Strand-specific normalized bigwigs were generated with deepTools (v3.5.0)(Ramirez et al., 2016). To identify differentially expressed genes, we collected the counts per gene by the featureCounts tool (v2.0.1). Differential expression analysis was then performed using DESeq2 R package (v1.26.0)(Love et al., 2014).
## CUT&Tag data analysis
Adapters and low-quality reads were trimmed using Trim Galore (v0.6.6; Babraham Institute) (https://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/trim_galore/) in paired-end mode. The resulting reads were aligned to human hg38 genome using Bowtie2 (v2.3.5.1)(Langmead and Salzberg, 2012) with the default parameters. For quantitative comparison, the reads were also aligned to the mm10 genome using Bowtie2 (v2.3.5.1)(Langmead and Salzberg, 2012) with the parameters: ‘--local --very-sensitive-local --no-mixed --no-discordant -I 15 -X 1000’. Duplicated reads were removed with Picard Tools (v2.25.5). To compensate for Tn5 tagmentation offset, reads were shifted using the alignmentSieve function of deepTools (v3.5.0)(Ramirez et al., 2016) with the ‘--ATACshift’ option.Finally, mm10-aligned reads were normalized to total read counts using deepTools (v3.5.0)(Ramirez et al., 2016).
## ATAC-seq data analysis
After trimming the adapters and low-quality reads as described for CUT&Tag above, the remaining reads were aligned to human hg38 using Bowtie2 (v2.3.5.1)(Langmead and Salzberg, 2012) with the parameters ‘-N 1 -L 25 -X 2000 --no-mixed --no-discordant’. For spike-in normalization, the reads were also aligned to mm10 genome by Bowtie2 (v2.3.5.1)(Langmead and Salzberg, 2012) with the options ‘--end-to-end --very-sensitive --no-overlap --no-dovetail --no-mixed --no-discordant -I 10 -X 700’. We subsequently filtered mitochondrial reads and PCR duplicates using SAMtools (v1.12)(Li et al., 2009) and Picard Tools (v2.25.5; Broad Institute). Reads were shifted as described for CUT&Tag above. Finally, read counts were normalized to total mm10-aligned reads using deepTools (v3.5.0)(Ramirez et al., 2016).
## rPRO-seq data analysis
The paired PRO-seq reads were subjected to trimming using Trim Galore (v0.6.6) with a read length threshold of >15 bp. Molecular barcodes (UMIs) were excised using fastp (v0.21.0)(Chen et al., 2018), followed by ribosomal RNA depletion using Bowtie2 (v2.3.5.1)(Langmead and Salzberg, 2012) with ‘--un-conc-gz’. Then the remaining reads were mapped to the hg38 or mm10 genome using Bowtie2 (v2.3.5.1)(Langmead and Salzberg, 2012) with ‘--local --sensitive-local’. The mapped data were next deduplicated with UMI-tools to remove PCR duplicates based on the UMI sequences. The normalization factor was calculated by the normalization factor as 1e6/spike-in_count, and strand-specific coverage tracks were generated using deepTools (v3.5.0)(Ramirez et al., 2016).
## TT-seq data analysis
The TT-seq raw reads were trimmed as described for CUT&Tag above and then aligned to either hg38 or mm10 genome using STAR (v2.7.5c)(Dobin et al., 2013) with parameters ‘--outFilter-MultimapNmax 1 --alignSJoverhangMin 8 --alignSJDBoverhangMin 1 --outFilterMismatchNmax 999 --outFilterMismatchNoverLmax 0.02 --alignIntronMin 20 --alignIntronMax 1000000 --alignMatesGapMax 1000000 --outSAMtype BAM SortedByCoordinate’. Duplicate and low-quality reads were removed, and only properly paired reads were retained for downstream analysis. The spike-in mm10 reads were quantified to generate the normalization factors. Strand-specific normalized bigwigs were generated with deepTools (v3.5.0)(Ramirez et al., 2016).
